---
layout: post
title: Dom's musings
---

So what is domusing? Well, as a word its a
[portmanteau](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portmanteau) of 'Dom' and 'musing'
that I came up with when trying to find a domain name that could be mine, with
the idea that it would somehow reflect my vision for a blog. As a blog, its a
place for me to write down ideas, thoughts, *musings* and whatever else I want
to write about; a series of reminders for myself --- of things I encounter, do,
or think --- with the chance that anyone who stumbles across it might find
something of interest.

There is no plan to focus content on any particular area --- its my musings:
they may be analytical, artistic, serious or silly; we'll have to see what
happens. Having said that, I have a few themes that I expect to come up: cooking
and food, programming and computing titbits, poetry, and mathematics. These are
all things I do and think about often, so I'm sure they'll feature prominently.
I'll likely use these topics as an initial springboard for content. In fact, I
already have plans for future posts in these areas and a few poems of my own to
share as well.

I'm not yet sure how often I will be posting; I have conflicting ideas and
expectations --- on one hand I'd like to post once a week, though I expect this
might be more difficult than I initially think, and making such a commitment may
kill the fun of it; on some level it also goes against the whimsical vision I
have for domusing. At the same time, I like the idea of forcing myself to write
regularly, not only for the content, but also to simply practice writing.  This
was one of the original reasons I had for starting a blog; it's not that I think
I'm bad at writing (though I've noticed lately that I may not be so crash hot at
editing my own writing), but I've seen (particularly in mathematical and
scientific texts) the value of clear writing in conveying ideas and want to
ensure I continue to develop my writing skills.

The last motivation for domusing, which will probably become a number of posts
over time, is the learning and discovery that will (hopefully) occur through the
maintenance and development of the platform. This includes both technical and
aesthetic aspects. For example, the process of obtaining a domain name, choosing
the [software](http://jekyllrb.com) that I use to generate the blog and how to
use and extend it (the latter will involve learning how to program in ruby) are
tasks and skills I've had to investigate (and will continue to do so), and there
are still grander plans for technical wizardry --- how about setting up a web
server so I have control over hosting? Will I be able to tack on an email server
to give me @domusing.com email addresses?

And the aesthetics? I've always thought critically about the design and
aesthetics involved in many types of user interfaces, though I think I will soon
learn that I've underestimated the amount of consideration and effort that is
required to create an efficient, clear, functional, and beautiful interface
experience. There seems to be a plethora of rabbit holes to jump down --- colour
palettes, page layouts, site navigation and typography, are a few that I've
thought a little about, but there is always much more to learn --- and I'm sure
my inevitable curiosity will have me jumping down them all.

So what is domusing? It's a scratch space for my ideas, somewhere to clarify my
thinking, a source of motivation for half-baked projects (wouldn't it look silly
if an introductory post about one lacked a follow up because I didn't finish
it?), a learning tool, and my personal literary sharpening steel. A place to
gather and organise my personal projects, ideas, and whatever else I
come up with.
