---
title: Ordering Thoughts
layout: post
tags: poetry
---

As I alluded to in my [first post](http://www.domusing.com/doms-musings) I have
an interest in poetry and dabble with writing my own from time to time. Now,
when I say I have an interest, I don't mean that I have much technical knowledge
about poetry, just what I've retained from my secondary English classes and the
few tit bits I've picked about devices like [metrical
feet](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metrical_foot) and
[metres](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metre_(poetry)). My interest is simply in
exploring how I appreciate and relate to poetry. In the poetry I write, listen
to and read I'm really only looking for how it makes me feel, or what it makes me
remember.

I'm not looking to over analyse or dissect poetry, though I'll appreciate the
poetic wizardry I can see --- like how the cadence or particular choice of words
complements a message --- and I certainly think hard about such devices in the
construction of my own poems. When I write poetry, I'm trying to describe a
picture of sorts, signposting memories and reflecting on experiences; the
somewhat inelegant term I came up with to express this was *thought ordering*.
For me, writing poetry --- this thought ordering --- allows a kind of
introspection I wouldn't otherwise experience. Writing gives me a keener
self-awareness and richer memory of the events or thoughts that inspire my
poems. This causes a desire to find the 'right' words to use, whatever that
really means (or if they even exists): that combination of alliteration, rhyme,
rhythm and whatever seems best capture my thoughts and allow me to recall them
later.

Searching for these 'right' words is, I think, almost the whole point. The
process of grappling with myself to try and find them requires an otherwise
unusually conscious effort in examining how I relate to the subject matter.
Having tried and tossed aside so many subtly (or not so subtly) different ways
of expressing a particular sentiment, means that my poems preserve a greater
context for me, catching all sorts of reasons for word choices and auxiliary
musings that I'm not sure I could properly write down, but become a part of the
poem for me nonetheless.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, I wrote a poem with similar themes to this post a while
back and as it's one of the few I've previously shared with people, it somehow
seems like a safe choice as a first inclusion for domusing. Giving titles to
poems seems overly tricky to me, as I usually want the title to add something
add something or solidify a sentiment, and I often change my mind and retitle
poems when I do minor edits, but for now I think I'll settle for calling this
one [*Words*](http://www.domusing.com/poetry/words). The spoken delivery of my
poems is usually quite important to me, and especially so with *Words*, being
one of the first poems I wrote with a particular focus on its rhythm and the way
I alter its pacing while reciting it. In fact, looking at it written out, I'm
unsure whether it comes across the same --- maybe I'll have to upload a recording
 at some point.

I'll be looking to put some more of my poems up in the near future, but I'll
have to do some work on creating a landing or index page for poems first so that
they can actually be found. I'll also have to decide whether I want to write
posts introducing some of them --- I suspect I'll want to write a bit about one
or two of them.
